---
layout: base
title: Binding Operational Directive 18-01
permalink: /bod/18-01/

subnav:
  - text: Introduction to Email Authentication
    href: /bod/18-01/intro/
  - text: HTTPS
    href: /bod/18-01/https/
  - text: Compliance Guide
    href: /bod/18-01/guide/
  - text: Resources
    href: /bod/18-01/resources/
---
## Enhance Email and Web Security

This page contains a web-friendly version of the Department of Homeland Security's [Binding Operational Directive 18-01](/assets/report/bod-18-01.pdf), “_Enhance Email and Web Security_”, and provides technical guidance and best practices to assist in its implementation.


### I. Background

Federal agency "cyber hygiene" greatly impacts user security. By
implementing specific security standards that have been widely adopted
in industry, federal agencies can ensure the integrity and
confidentiality of internet-delivered data, minimize spam, and better
protect users who might otherwise fall victim to a phishing email that
appears to come from a government-owned system.

Based on current network scan data and a clear potential for harm, this
directive requires actions related to two topics: email security and web
security.

#### A. Email Security

##### STARTTLS

When enabled by a receiving mail server, **STARTTLS** signals to a sending
mail server that the capability to encrypt an email in transit is
present. While it does not force the use of encryption, enabling
STARTTLS makes passive man-in-the-middle attacks more difficult.

##### Email Authentication

**SPF** (Sender Policy Framework) and **DKIM** (DomainKeys Identified Mail)
allow a sending domain to effectively "watermark" their emails, making
unauthorized emails (e.g., spam, phishing email) easy to detect. When an
email is received that doesn’t pass an agency’s posted SPF/DKIM rules,
**DMARC** (Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance)
tells a recipient what the domain owner would like done with the
message.

**Setting a DMARC policy of "reject" provides the strongest protection
against spoofed email**, ensuring that unauthenticated messages are
rejected at the mail server, even before delivery. Additionally, DMARC
reports provide a mechanism for an agency to be made aware of the
source of an apparent forgery, information that they wouldn’t normally
receive otherwise. Multiple recipients can be defined for the receipt of
DMARC reports.

#### B. Web Security

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) connections can be easily monitored,
modified, and impersonated; HTTPS remedies each vulnerability. HTTP
Strict Transport Security (HSTS) ensures that browsers always use an
https:// connection, and removes the ability for users to click through
certificate-related warnings.

In 2015, [OMB M-15-13](https://https.cio.gov/) required all existing
Federal websites and web services to be accessible through a secure
connection (HTTPS-only, with HSTS). In 2017, the .gov registry began
[automatically preloading](https://home.dotgov.gov/hsts-preloading/) new federal .gov domains as HSTS-only in modern
browsers.

Federal agencies must make more progress on HTTPS and HSTS
deployment, including by removing support for known-weak cryptographic
protocols and ciphers. According to DHS’s Cyber Hygiene scanning data,
seven of the ten most common vulnerabilities seen across federal agency
networks at the issuance of this directive would be addressed through
complying with the required actions in this directive related to web
security.

### II. Required Actions

All agencies are **required** to:

1.  [Within 30 calendar days](/guide/#checklist) after issuance of this directive, develop
    and provide to DHS an "Agency Plan of Action for BOD 18-01" to:

    a.  **Enhance email security by**:

      >i. [Within 90 days](/guide/#checklist) after issuance of this directive,
            configuring:

      >-  All internet-facing mail servers to offer STARTTLS, and

      >-  All second-level agency domains to have valid SPF/DMARC
                records, with at minimum a DMARC policy of "p=none" and
                at least one address defined as a recipient of aggregate
                and/or failure reports.

      >ii. [Within 120 days](/guide/#checklist) after issuance of this directive, ensuring:

      >-  Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)v2 and SSLv3 are disabled on
                mail servers, and

      >-  3DES and RC4 ciphers are disabled on mail servers.

      >iii. [Within 15 days](/guide/#checklist) of the establishment of centralized National Cybersecurity & Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) [reporting location](/guide/#dhs-dmarc-reporting-location), adding the NCCIC as a recipient of DMARC aggregate reports.

      >iv. [Within one year](/guide/#checklist) after issuance of this directive, setting a
            DMARC policy of "reject" for all second-level domains and
            mail-sending hosts.

    b.  **Enhance web security by**:

      >i.  [Within 120 days](/guide/#checklist) after issuance of this directive, ensuring:

      > +  All publicly accessible Federal websites and web
                services provide service through a secure connection
                ([HTTPS-only, with HSTS](https://https.cio.gov/)),

      >*  SSLv2 and SSLv3 are disabled on web servers, and

      >*  3DES and RC4 ciphers are disabled on web servers.

      >*  Identifying and providing a list to DHS of agency
          second-level domains that can be HSTS preloaded, for which
          HTTPS will be enforced for all subdomains.

2.  Upon delivery of its Agency Plan of Action for BOD 18-01 within 30
    days of this directive per required action 1, begin implementing
    that plan.

3.  At [60 calendar days](/guide/#checklist) after issuance of this directive, provide a
    report to DHS on the status of that implementation. Continue to
    report [every 30 calendar days](/guide/#checklist) thereafter until implementation of the
    agency’s BOD 18-01 plan is complete.

### III. DHS Actions

-   DHS will review each Agency Plan of Action for BOD 18-01 upon
    receipt, and contact agencies with any concerns.

-   DHS will coordinate agency-provided lists of domains for HSTS preloading with DotGov.

-   DHS will rely on its National Cybersecurity Assessments & Technical
    Services team scanning for tracking and verifying progress.

-   DHS will notify agencies when the NCCIC establishes a central
    location for the collection of agency DMARC aggregate reports, described above
    at [II(1)(a)(iii)](#ii-required-actions).

-   DHS will provide additional guidance through a DHS BOD coordination
    call and other engagements and products following the issuance of
    this directive.

### IV. Potential Budgetary Implications

DHS understands that compliance with this BOD could result in budgetary
implications. Agency Chief Information Officers (CIOs) and procurement
officers should coordinate with the agency Chief Financial Officer
(CFO), as appropriate.
