---
layout: base
title: Binding Operational Directive 15-01
permalink: /bod/15-01/

subnav:
  - text: Background
    href: "#background"
  - text: Required Actions
    href: "#required-actions"
  - text: Progress Tracking
    href: "#progress-tracking"
---
May 21, 2015
## Critical Vulnerability Mitigation

This page contains a web-friendly version of the Department of Homeland Security’s [Binding Operational Directive 15-01](/assets/report/bod-15-01.pdf), “_Critical Vulnerability Mitigation Requirement for Federal Civilian Executive Branch Departments and Agencies' Internet-Accessible Systems_”, and provides technical guidance and best practices to assist in its implementation.

### Background

Increasing cybersecurity risks are forcing organizations to focus more
attention on information security. By identifying and mitigating
vulnerabilities in the information technology (IT) environment,
organizations can reduce the risk of attackers penetrating their
networks and stealing information.

In accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum
[15-01: Fiscal Year 2014-2015 Guidance on Improving Federal Information
Security and Privacy Management
Practices](https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/memoranda/2015/m-15-01.pdf),
the Department’s National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration
Center (NCCIC) conducts persistent network and vulnerability scans of
Federal Civilian Executive Branch Departments and Agencies’ (“Department
and Agency”) Internet-accessible systems to identify known
vulnerabilities and configuration errors. As a result of this activity,
reports are generated and delivered weekly, titled “Cyber Hygiene
report”, tailored for each Department and Agency, to provide an enhanced
understanding of the Department or Agencies’ cyber posture, and to
promote a secure and resilient IT infrastructure. The weekly reports
illustrate the vulnerabilities detected, identify the affected systems,
and provide mitigation guidance. Often times, the vulnerabilities
identified through these scans are rated “critical.”

Critical vulnerabilities with a Common Vulnerability Scoring System
(CVSS) rating of “ten” on a scale of one to ten are included in each
weekly “Cyber Hygiene report.” CVSS is a vulnerability scoring system
designed to provide a universally open and standardized method for
rating IT vulnerabilities utilized by both government and private sector
entities. CVSS helps organizations prioritize and coordinate a joint
response to security vulnerabilities by communicating the base, temporal
and environmental properties of a vulnerability.

Critical vulnerabilities are typically remotely exploitable, have a low
complexity to execute, utilize default or no authentication and impact
confidentiality, integrity and availability. By their very nature,
critical vulnerabilities detected through scanning are exposed to anyone
with an Internet connection, are at imminent risk of exploitation by a
malicious third party and should be immediately addressed.

The NCCIC has observed traffic targeting known vulnerabilities (e.g.
Heartbleed) through the National Cybersecurity Protection System and
recorded numerous incident reports across all critical infrastructure
sectors where the root cause of compromise stemmed from outdated
operating systems and applications (e.g. content management systems) and
weak (to include instances of default) credentials. In addition, the
NCCIC is aware that sophisticated advanced persistent threat actors have
exploited several of these critical vulnerabilities in cyber incidents
affecting Department and Agency networks, private sector, and state,
local, tribal, and territorial entities.

In the future, the NCCIC scanning capability will benefit from the
continued implementation of the Departments’ Continuous Diagnostics and
Mitigation (CDM) solutions across the Department and Agencies’ IT
infrastructure. This will allow for more robust information sharing of
critical vulnerabilities (both Internet-exposed and internal) and assist
the NCCIC in focusing Department and Agency assessments.

### Required Actions

All Departments and Agencies shall review and mitigate the critical
vulnerabilities on their Internet facing systems identified by the NCCIC
within 30 days of issuance of their weekly “Cyber Hygiene report.” The
timeliness of this mitigation is imperative given that all the
vulnerabilities identified through a scan are Internet-accessible.

This Binding Operational Directive applies to all current and future
critical vulnerabilities identified in the weekly “Cyber Hygiene
report.” Department or Agencies that are unable to mitigate a
vulnerability within thirty days will provide a detailed justification
to DHS outlining any barriers, planned steps for resolution, and a
timeframe for mitigation. DHS, through its Federal Network Resilience
Division, will work directly with the Department or Agency to attempt to
assist or address any constraints limiting expedited resolution of the
vulnerability. ([44 U.S.C. § 3553(b)(2)(C) & 3](https://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf#page=3))

### Progress Tracking

Beginning on the date of issuance of this Binding Operational Directive,
all critical vulnerabilities identified on a Department or Agencies’
weekly “Cyber Hygiene report” must be mitigated within 30 days of the
initial reporting of a critical vulnerability:

-   The NCCIC will leverage the weekly scans to track each Department
    and Agencies’ progress mitigating its critical vulnerabilities.

-   DHS will provide quarterly “Cyber Hygiene report” updates to OMB to
    ensure Department and Agency results are synchronized with OMB
    cybersecurity oversight initiatives.

-   Mitigated vulnerabilities will automatically be detected and removed
    from future reports.

-   Any vulnerability that cannot be mitigated within thirty days must
    be reported to DHS with a detailed justification explaining the
    constraints limiting expedited mitigation and the steps that the
    Department or Agency is implementing to progress toward mitigation.
