---
layout: base
title: Binding Operational Directive 16-02
permalink: /bod/16-02/

subnav:
  - text: Background
    href: "#background"
  - text: Required Actions
    href: "#required-actions"
  - text: Progress Tracking
    href: "#progress-tracking"
  - text: Analysis Report 16-20173
    href: "/assets/report/ar-16-20173.pdf"
--- 
September 27, 2016
## Threat to Network Infrastructure Devices

This page contains a web-friendly version of the Department of Homeland Security's [Binding Operational Directive 16-02](/assets/report/bod-16-02.pdf), “_Threat to Network Infrastructure Devices”_, and provides technical guidance and best practices to assist in its implementation.


### Background

For several years, network infrastructure devices have been the
attack-vector of choice for sophisticated hackers and advanced threat
actors. The DHS/National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration
Center (NCCIC) expects this trend to continue. Network infrastructure
devices are the devices that transport the communications required for
the data, applications, services, and multimedia that your agencies rely
upon each and every day to fulfill their mission. As the security of
desktop and laptop computers and servers have improved, based on our
collective efforts to improve federal cybersecurity, our adversaries are
adjusting their tactics, techniques, and procedures and have begun
targeting network infrastructure devices.

Three particularly urgent issues require immediate attention across all
impacted Federal agencies: hacking tools targeting firewalls, Cisco
Adaptive Security Appliance, and Cisco ROM Monitor Integrity. If not
addressed, impacts may include denial-of-service attacks, data theft,
and the altering of data, all of which can be accomplished much more
effectively and in a more subtle and targeted manner from compromised
network infrastructure, and can impede workforce productivity and the
ability to execute your agency's mission.

We have witnessed our adversaries attempting to take advantage of these
vulnerabilities to exploit Federal agency networks. We anticipate that
our adversaries will continue to try to take advantage of these
vulnerabilities, as well as vulnerabilities we have yet to identify. To
help combat this exigent threat, and to adapt to the threat environment
your agencies' should expect to face moving forward, my Department has
provided a series of mitigation steps and best practices to ensure your
agency is as protected as possible. The NCCIC has published an [Analysis
Report AR-16-20173](/assets/report/ar-16-20173.pdf) and associated Technical Annexes, which addresses all
three of these issues. The NCCIC has also deployed signatures in the
EINSTEIN system to detect suspicious activity related to these
exploitation tools and vulnerabilities, to help protect the Federal
civilian executive branch. The NCCIC will continue to analyze
information for additional mitigation steps to protect our Federal
networks and will develop Technical Annexes in the future under this
directive as necessary.

Regardless of their generic common vulnerability score, the
vulnerabilities identified in AR-16-20173 and associated Technical
Annexes are now deemed critical for purposes of Binding Operational
Directive 15-01 (issued May 2015). When these vulnerabilities are found
on external-facing systems they will also be flagged in each agency\'s
BOD 15-01 scorecard report.

### Required Actions

-   Perform all actions in the "Solution" sections of the "Technical
    Annexes" to the [NCCIC Analysis Report AR-16-20173](/assets/report/ar-16-20173.pdf) no later than 45
    days after issuance of this Directive.[^2]

-   Report to DHS, through the OMB MAX Connect Portal, either full
    mitigation or provide a detailed plan of action and milestones
    explaining the constraints preventing mitigation and the associated
    compensating controls established no later than 45 days after
    issuance of this Directive.

-   Provide additional reports or plans of action and milestones every
    30 days thereafter until full mitigation is achieved.

### Progress Tracking

If an agency does not comply with the requirements of this directive,
DHS will follow up with each Deputy Secretary or equivalent, as
appropriate.


[^1]: *See* 44 U.S.C. §§ 3552(b)(1), 3553(b)(2), 3554(a)(1)(B)(ii).

[^2]: Agencies must comply with the deadline timeframe referenced in the
    "Required Actions" of this directive for any future Technical
    Annexes of NCCIC Analysis Report AR-16-20173, triggered on the date
    of issuance of each additional Technical Annex.
